[MUSIC]
>> Jafar: Today the topic is
asynchronous programming in JavaScript.
First a little bit about myself.
I'm the Cross-Team Technical Lead for
the UIs at Netflix.
I'm the architect of
Netflix's UI Data Platform, FalcorJS.
And I'm a member of the TC39.
Netflix technically is a member, and
I'm a representative there on the TC39,
which is the JavaScript
standards committee.
Who's heard of that by the way?
I'm just curious.
Okay, a few folks.
Okay, they're the standards body that
designs the JavaScript language.
And I've been about 16
years in the industry.
I formerly worked for Microsoft and GE.
Today I'm gonna teach how to solve big
asynchronous problems, hard problems.
The time that you run into when you build
very, very large JavaScript code bases.
But we're gonna do it just by
thinking differently about events.
Probably everybody in this room has
worked with events, DOM events.
I'm gonna show you a different
way of thinking about events.
Really a fundamentally different
It's gonna make asynchronous
programming problems that seem really,
really hard suddenly seem a lot easier.
So asynchronous programming seems hard.
I'm sure a lot of us have
heard of callback hell or
we've tried to structure large
JavaScript programs asynchronously,
and it certainly seems to introduce
a lot of complexity doesn't it.
To take a look at some examples here of
the types of complexity you can run into
when you start building asynchronous
programs, you have race conditions, right?
I start two actions,
they're running concurrently.
And I'm sort of hoping that one
finishes before the other or
I want to at least enforce that one
finishes before the other, right?
Memory Leaks, anybody ever hooked
up to a DOM event before and
then forgotten to unhook their event and
if the app runs for
long enough you slowly start
to see the memory go away?
Complex state machines, this is one that I
don't think as many JavaScript developers
think explicitly about.
But this is actually the source of
a tremendous amount of complexity when you
start building asynchronous programs.
And uncaught asynchronous errors,
how do you deal with error handling?
I mean, when we're in JavaScript we've
got try catch for synchronous errors, but
as soon as we start doing
asynchronous programming,
try catch doesn't help us at all.
And so JavaScript provides no facilities
to deal to with asynchronous error
handling and so if you find it hard,
you're not crazy, it is hard, right?
So let's take a look at a concrete
example of some of the things I
just talked about here.
Here at Netflix,
we used to write code like this.
This is sort of very similar to
the code that we used to write in order
to play a movie.
When you started playing
a movie you would, for example,
this function here would
accept the movie ID.
It would accept the cancel button,
and it would have a callback,
which would invoke when that
movie was successfully playing.
So I want to call your attention first and
foremost to the state.
So really what's going on
is two concurrent things.
The player in Netflix is asynchronous.
And so
when you would ask it to play a movie,
first we've got to start loading up the
player and that's an asynchronous process.
Another asynchronous process that
takes place is going to the server and
authorizing you to play that movie.
So we have to confirm that you're logged
in and you're who we think you are and
you're able to play that movie.
So here we've got two
asynchronous actions, and
we don't want to do them one after
the other cuz that would be slow.
So we wanna kick them both
off at the same time.
So this is the race condition concurrency
issue we talked about before.
In order to figure out, every single
time one of these operation finishes,
we need to check if
the other one's finished and
if they both finish, we wanna do
something, in this case play the movie.
What I've had to introduce here, I want
you to notice, is variables to track,
in this case whether the player's
initialized, so player.initialized,
that's a Boolean variable hanging off
the property, off the player, excuse me.
We have to check that whenever
the movie ticket is successfully
retrieved from the server.
And so I've got these two variables.
One's tracking whether the movie
ticket's been authorized,
the other tracking whether
the player's been initialized.
And every single time one of the actions
completes I have to check the other one.
So over time if you try and do this,
if you use this approach to tracking
whether asynchronous programs are done
by introducing state into your program,
you'll find that over time you've got
all these variables and all these moving
pieces, and it's really difficult to keep
them set to the right values, right?
And what happens if something goes wrong?
God forbid, then you have to reset
them to the previous values.
This is actually the real
source of complexity, I think,
in most large asynchronous programs.
If you start using state to
track your async programs,
you're gonna find it doesn't scale very
well as your JavaScript code base scales.
The other issue here is error handling.
Now because an error can happen
in either of those two actions,
initializing the player or authorizing
the movie, I have to make sure to clean up
after myself, and make sure that
I forward that error along, but
also, if possible, cancel any
asynchronous actions that are happening.
I don't want to send a requirement,
I don't want to keep request sent off if
there's no reason for it to be sent off,
because one of those two
actions of which was errored.
For example I couldn't authorize
your movie ticket, or I couldn't for
whatever reason initialize the player.
Now I deliberately left a bug
in this particular program.
If you notice here,
I'm hooking up to the cancel button,
an event listener as soon as you try and
start playing.
Because what if you decide you wanna
hit back or you wanna cancel playing?
Well, we'd like to stop
this action of playing and
then sort of cancel the whole thing.
Notice right here, this line?
Can anybody spot the bug in this program?
>> Speaker 2: You're missing
your close param right?
>> Jafar: Sorry?
>> Speaker 2: Are you just missing
a close param?
>> Jafar: [LAUGH] that's
an entirely different bug.
[LAUGH] But yeah, I'm missing a close
parameter so this will not compile.
However, the actual bug I'm
trying to get at is I'm
forgetting anywhere to unhook
from that event handler.
So I've hooked up an event handler and
then you hit cancel and
then I just stop the function.
And so the next time you try and play it,
I'll hook up another event handler and so
on and so forth, until gradually
the program starts to lose memory.
And so, that's another thing.
Remember if I hit an error,
I also need to remember to unhook
any event handlers out there.
It's a very complicated thing to do,
to clean up after yourself
when you have an error.
But when we're doing
synchronous programming,
try catch does all that for us, right?
It unwinds the stack, and any variables
we've allocated are all cleaned up.
In asynchronous programming
we're on our own.
So I'm gonna show you guys today a pretty
radically different way of building
asynchronous programs, and it's actually
gonna involve not much more than a few
flexible functions that you guys
are gonna use again and again.
In fact these may be actually some
of the most flexible functions
you will ever learn,
the ones I'm teaching you today.
And you're gonna to be
able to use them for
asynchronous programming
as well as other things.